micro:bit: chapter 04; 05 (#271)
rust-embedded/discovery: src/05-led-roulette/it-blinks.md

# It blinks

## Delaying
Now we're going to take a brief look into delay abstractions provided by `embedded-hal`
before combining this with the GPIO abstractions from the previous chapter in order to
finally make an LED blink.

> `embedded-hal` provides us with two abstractions to delay the execution of our program,
> [DelayUs] as well as [DelayMs] both of which essentially work the exact same way except
> that they accept different units for their delay function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`embedded-hal` provides us with two abstractions to delay the execution of our program:
[DelayUs] and [DelayMs]. Both of them essentially work the exact same way except
that they accept different units for their delay function.
```

[DelayUs]: https://docs.rs/embedded-hal/0.2.4/embedded_hal/blocking/delay/trait.DelayUs.html
[DelayMs]: https://docs.rs/embedded-hal/0.2.4/embedded_hal/blocking/delay/trait.DelayMs.html

> Inside of our MCU exist several so called timers, they can do various things regarding time for us,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside of our MCU, several so-called "timers" exist. They can do various things regarding time for us,
```

> of course including to simply pause the execution of our program for a fixed amount of time. A very

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including simply pausing the execution of our program for a fixed amount of time. A very
```
Seems simpler to me this way.

> simple delay based program that prints something every second might for example look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simple delay-based program that prints something every second might for example look like this:
```

```rs
#![deny(unsafe_code)]
#![no_main]
#![no_std]

use cortex_m_rt::entry;
use rtt_target::{rtt_init_print, rprintln};
use panic_rtt_target as _;
use nrf51_hal as hal;
use hal::prelude::*;

#[entry]
fn main() -> ! {
    rtt_init_print!();
    let p = hal::pac::Peripherals::take().unwrap();

    let mut delay = hal::Timer::new(p.TIMER0);
    loop {
        delay.delay_ms(1000u32);
        rprintln!("1000 ms passed");
    }
}
```

In order to actually see the prints we have to change `Embed.toml` like this:
```
[default.general]
chip = "nrf51822_xxAA"

[default.reset]
halt_afterwards = false

[default.rtt]
enabled = true

[default.gdb]
enabled = false
```

> And now after a quick `cargo-embed` you should see "1000 ms passed" being sent to your console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now after a quick `cargo embed` you should see "`1000 ms passed`" being sent to your console
```

every second from your MCU.

## Blinking

Now we've arrived at the point where we can combine our new knowledge about GPIO and delay abstractions
in order to actually make an LED on the back of the micro:bit blink. The resulting program is really just

> a mash up of the one above and the one that turned an LED on in the last chapter and looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a mash-up of the one above and the one that turned an LED on in the last chapter and looks like this:
```

```rs
#![deny(unsafe_code)]
#![no_main]
#![no_std]

use cortex_m_rt::entry;
use rtt_target::{rtt_init_print, rprintln};
use panic_rtt_target as _;
use nrf51_hal as hal;
use hal::prelude::*;

#[entry]
fn main() -> ! {
    rtt_init_print!();
    let p = hal::pac::Peripherals::take().unwrap();

    let mut delay = hal::Timer::new(p.TIMER0);

    let p0 = hal::gpio::p0::Parts::new(p.GPIO);
    let mut row1 = p0.p0_13.into_push_pull_output(hal::gpio::Level::Low);
    let _col1 = p0.p0_04.into_push_pull_output(hal::gpio::Level::Low);

    loop {
      row1.set_high().unwrap();
      rprintln!("Light!");
      delay.delay_ms(500u32);

      row1.set_low().unwrap();
      rprintln!("Dark!");
      delay.delay_ms(500u32);
    }
}
```

> And after another `cargo-embed` you should see the LED we light up before blinking as well as a print, every

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And after another `cargo embed` you should see the LED we light up before blinking as well as a print, every
```

> And after another `cargo-embed` you should see the LED we light up before blinking as well as a print, every

Reviewer: Maybe it is necessary to explain where to put this code. I am not sure how much around that has already been explained.

Author: Tried to add this with the last commit (as well as the final parts for ch05).
